di(1)									 di(1)



Name
       di - disk information

Synopsis
       di  [-AaghHklLmnPtZ]  [-b block-size] [-d display-size] [-f format] [-I
       include-fstyp-list] [-s sort-type] [-w  block-width]  [-W  inode-width]
       [-x exclude-fstyp-list] [-X debug-level] [-z zone-name] [file [...]]

       mi

Description
       di Displays usage information on mounted filesystems.  Block values are
       reported in megabytes (1024k bytes) by default, but may be changed.  If
       file  is	 specified,  the  usage information for the partition on which
       file is located is printed.

       Unless the -a flag is specified, the following mounted filesystems will
       not normally be displayed: filesystems with total blocks <= 0; filesys-
       tems marked by the operating system as "ignore";	 automounted  filesys-
       tems  that  are duplicates of other normally mounted filesystems; loop-
       back filesystems that are part of a zone (Solaris).

       mi Displays the mounted filesystem information.

       Several switches may be specified to control the output of di and mi:

       -A     Print all fields (used for debugging).  Mount points and special
	      device names are printed at full width.  The -a flag is set.

       -a     Prints  all mounted devices (normally, those with 0 total blocks
	      are not printed - e.g. /dev/proc, /dev/fd).

       -b     block-size (compatibility: -B)
	      Change the base block size from 1024 (default) to the size spec-
	      ified.   block-size  may	be  one	 of:  k - 1024 bytes, d - 1000
	      bytes, or a specific size.

       -d     display-size Display the	blocks	in  units  specified  by  dis-
	      play-size.   display-size	 may be one of: 512 - POSIX, k - kilo-
	      bytes,	 m - megabytes,	    g - gigabytes,	t - terabytes,
	      P - petabytes,   E - exabytes,  Z - zettabytes,  Y - yottabytes,
	      h - Scaled alternative 1, H - Scaled alternative 2,  or  a  spe-
	      cific value to use as the block size.

	      Block display sizes greater than 1024 bytes are displayed with a
	      precision of one decimal place after the radix.

	      The Scaled alternatives scale the sizes displayed and appends  a
	      suffix (e.g. 48.0k, 3.4M).

	      With scaled alternative 1, sizes within a line may scale to dif-
	      ferent units.

	      Scaled alternative 2 scales all the  sizes  in  each  individual
	      line to the same unit size (the largest needed).

       -f     format  Use  the specified format string format.	Format strings
	      are described below.

       -g     (alias for: -dg)
	      Display sizes in gigabytes.

       -h     (alias for: -dh)
	      Display partition sizes in scaled alternative 1 format.

       -H     (alias for: -dH)
	      Display partition sizes in scaled alternative 2 format.

       -I     include-fstype-list (compatibility: -F)
	      Include only the file system types listed in include-fstyp-list.
	      The list is a comma separated list of file system types.	Multi-
	      ple -I options may be specified.	e.g. -I nfs,rfs or -I  nfs  -I
	      rfs.

       -k     (alias for: -dk)
	      Display sizes in Kbytes.

       -l     Display only local file systems.

       -L     Don’t do the check for duplicate filesystems.

       -m     (alias for: -dm)
	      Display sizes in megabytes.

       -n     Do not print a header line above the list of file systems.  Use-
	      ful when parsing the output of di.

       -P     Output format is POSIX standard.	512 byte  block	 size  is  the
	      default.	The -k option may be used.

       -s     sort-type
	      Use  sort-type to sort the output.  The output of di is normally
	      sorted by name.  The output may be left unsorted	(-s n  command
	      line  switch)  i.e.  as  it appears in the mount table or may be
	      sorted by the special device name (-s s  command	line  switch).
	      If the -s	 r command line switch is used, the sort order will be
	      reversed.	 If file is specified on the command line, no  sorting
	      is done.

       -t     Print  a	totals	line  below  the list of file systems.	Memory
	      filesystems (tmpfs, mfs) and read-only filesystems are not added
	      to the totals.

       -w     block-width
	      Set the print width for block values.  Default is eight.

       -W     inode-width
	      Set the print width for inode values.  Default is seven.

       -x     exclude-fstype-list (old: -i)
	      Exclude the file system types listed in exclude-fstyp-list.  The
	      list is a comma separated list of file system  types.   Multiple
	      -x  options may be specified.  e.g. -x nfs,rfs or -x nfs -x rfs.

       -X     level
	      Set the program’s debugging level to debug-level.

       -z     zone-name
	      Display the filesystems for the specified zone.  The  zone  must
	      be visible to the user.

       -Z     (alias for: -z all)
	      Display the filesystems for all visible zones.

Format strings
       The output of di may be specified via a format string.  This string may
       be given either via the -f command line switch or by the DIFMT environ-
       ment variable.  The format string may specify the following columns:

	m      Print the name of the mount point.

	M      Print  the  name of the mount point, at full length.  The mount
	       point is formatted to  the  maximum  width  necessary  for  the
	       longest mount point name.

	b      Print  the  total  number of megabytes on the file system.  See
	       also the -d option.

	B      Print the total number of megabytes on the file	system	avail-
	       able for use by normal users.  See also the -d option.

	u      Print the number of megabytes in use on the file system (actual
	       number of megabytes used = total -  free).   See	 also  the  -d
	       option.

	c      Print  the  number of megabytes not available for use by normal
	       users (total - available).  See also the -d option.

	f      Print the number of free (unused) megabytes on the file system.
	       See also the -d option.

	v      Print  the  number  of  megabytes  available  for use by normal
	       users.  See also the -d option.

	p      Print the percentage of megabytes not available for use by nor-
	       mal  users  (number  of megabytes not available for use / total
	       disk space).  See also the -d option.

	1      Print the percentage of total megabytes in use  (actual	number
	       of megabytes used / total disk space).  See also the -d option.

	2      Print the percentage of megabytes in  use,  BSD-style.	Repre-
	       sents the percentage of user-available space in use.  Note that
	       values over 100% are possible (actual number of megabytes  used
	       /  disk	space  available  to non-root users).  See also the -d
	       option.

	a      Print the percentage of megabytes available for use  by	normal
	       users  (number  of  megabytes  available	 for  use / total disk
	       space).	See also the -d option.

	3      Print the percentage of total megabytes free (actual number  of
	       megabytes free / total disk space).  See also the -d option.

	i      Print  the total number of file slots (inodes) that can be cre-
	       ated on the file system.

	U      Print the number of file slots in use.

	F      Print the number of file slots available.

	P      Print the percentage of file slots in use.

	s      Print the file system name  (special  device  or	 remote	 mount
	       point).

	S      Print  the  file	 system	 name  (special device or remote mount
	       point), at full length.	The file system name is	 formatted  to
	       the maximum width necessary for the longest file system name.

	t      Print the file system type.

	T      Print  the  file	 system	 type at full length.  The file system
	       type is formatted  to  the  maximum  width  necessary  for  the
	       longest file system type.

	I      Print  the time the filesystem was mounted.  This column is not
	       supported on all systems.

	O      Print the filesystem mount options.

       The default format string for di is smbuvpT.

       The default format string for mi is MSTIO.

       The format string may also  contain  any	 other	character  not	listed
       above.	The  character will be printed as is.  e.g. di -f ’mbuvp|iUFP’
       will print the character ’|’ between the disk usage and the  file  slot
       usage.  The command sequence (Bourne Shell):
	      di -f ’mbuvp
	      miUFP’
       will print two lines of data for each filesystem.

Examples
       Various df equivalent format strings for System V release 4 are:

	      /usr/bin/df -v	 di -P -f msbuf1
	      /usr/bin/df -k	 di -dk -f sbcvpm
	      /usr/ucb/df	 di -dk -f sbuv2m

       If  you like your numbers to add up/calculate the percentage correctly,
       try one of the following format strings:

	      di -f SMbuf1T
	      di -f SMbcvpT
	      di -f SMBuv2T

Environment Variables
       The DIFMT environment variable may be used to specify the default  dis-
       play format string.

       The  DI_ARGS  environment  variable may be used to specify command line
       arguments.  e.g. If you always want gigabytes  displayed,  set  DI_ARGS
       equal to "-dg".	Any command line arguments specified will override the
       DI_ARGS environment variable.

       The GNU df POSIXLY_CORRECT, and DF_BLOCK_SIZE  and  the	BSD  BLOCKSIZE
       environment variables are honored.

Note
       For  filesystems	 that  do  not	report available blocks (e.g. System V
       release 3), the number of available blocks is considered to be the num-
       ber of free blocks.

WARNING
       Do not replace your system’s df command with this program.  You will in
       all likelihood break your installation procedures.

See Also
       df(1),  fstab(5),  getmnt(2),   getmntinfo(2),	mnttab(4),   mount(1M)
       statfs(2), statvfs(2)

Bugs
       Send bug reports to: di-bugs@gentoo.com

Website
       http://www.gentoo.com/di/

Author
       This program is Copyright 1994-2006 by Brad Lanam.

       Brad Lanam, Walnut Creek, CA (bll@gentoo.com)



				  20 Nov 2005				 di(1)
