ADDR2LINE(1)		     GNU Development Tools		  ADDR2LINE(1)



NAME
       addr2line - convert addresses into file names and line numbers.

SYNOPSIS
       addr2line [-b bfdname│--target=bfdname]
		 [-C│--demangle[=style]]
		 [-e filename│--exe=filename]
		 [-f│--functions] [-s│--basename]
		 [-H│--help] [-V│--version]
		 [addr addr ...]

DESCRIPTION
       addr2line  translates  program  addresses into file names and line num-
       bers.  Given an address and an executable, it uses the debugging infor-
       mation  in the executable to figure out which file name and line number
       are associated with a given address.

       The executable to use is specified with the -e option.  The default  is
       the file a.out.

       addr2line has two modes of operation.

       In  the first, hexadecimal addresses are specified on the command line,
       and addr2line displays the file name and line number for each  address.

       In  the	second,	 addr2line  reads  hexadecimal addresses from standard
       input, and prints the file name and line number	for  each  address  on
       standard output.	 In this mode, addr2line may be used in a pipe to con-
       vert dynamically chosen addresses.

       The format of the output is FILENAME:LINENO.  The file  name  and  line
       number  for  each  address  is  printed	on a separate line.  If the -f
       option is used, then each FILENAME:LINENO line is preceded by  a	 FUNC-
       TIONNAME line which is the name of the function containing the address.

       If the file name or function name can not be determined, addr2line will
       print two question marks in their place.	 If the line number can not be
       determined, addr2line will print 0.

OPTIONS
       The long and short forms of options, shown here	as  alternatives,  are
       equivalent.

       -b bfdname
       --target=bfdname
	   Specify  that  the  object-code format for the object files is bfd-
	   name.

       -C
       --demangle[=style]
	   Decode (demangle) low-level symbol  names  into  user-level	names.
	   Besides  removing  any  initial underscore prepended by the system,
	   this makes C++ function names readable.  Different  compilers  have
	   different  mangling	styles. The optional demangling style argument
	   can be used to choose an appropriate demangling style for your com-
	   piler.

       -e filename
       --exe=filename
	   Specify  the	 name  of the executable for which addresses should be
	   translated.	The default file is a.out.

       -f
       --functions
	   Display function names as well as file and line number information.

       -s
       --basenames
	   Display only the base of each file name.

SEE ALSO
       Info entries for binutils.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  (c)  1991, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000, 2001, 2002,
       2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify	this  document
       under  the  terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
       any later version published by the Free Software	 Foundation;  with  no
       Invariant  Sections,  with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
       Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ‘‘GNU
       Free Documentation License’’.



binutils-2.13.90		  2003-04-27			  ADDR2LINE(1)
