WINDRES(1)		     GNU Development Tools		    WINDRES(1)



NAME
       windres - manipulate Windows resources.

SYNOPSIS
       windres [options] [input-file] [output-file]

DESCRIPTION
       windres reads resources from an input file and copies them into an out-
       put file.  Either file may be in one of three formats:

       "rc"
	   A text format read by the Resource Compiler.

       "res"
	   A binary format generated by the Resource Compiler.

       "coff"
	   A COFF object or executable.

       The exact description of these different formats is available in	 docu-
       mentation from Microsoft.

       When  windres  converts from the "rc" format to the "res" format, it is
       acting like the Windows Resource Compiler.  When windres converts  from
       the  "res"  format  to the "coff" format, it is acting like the Windows
       "CVTRES" program.

       When windres generates an "rc" file, the	 output	 is  similar  but  not
       identical  to  the  format  expected for the input.  When an input "rc"
       file refers to an external filename, an output "rc" file	 will  instead
       include the file contents.

       If  the	input  or  output  format is not specified, windres will guess
       based on the file name, or, for the input file, the file	 contents.   A
       file  with  an extension of .rc will be treated as an "rc" file, a file
       with an extension of .res will be treated as a "res" file, and  a  file
       with an extension of .o or .exe will be treated as a "coff" file.

       If  no  output  file  is specified, windres will print the resources in
       "rc" format to standard output.

       The normal use is for you to write an "rc" file, use windres to convert
       it  to a COFF object file, and then link the COFF file into your appli-
       cation.	This will make the resources described in the "rc" file avail-
       able to Windows.

OPTIONS
       -i filename
       --input filename
	   The	name of the input file.	 If this option is not used, then win-
	   dres will use the first non-option argument as the input file name.
	   If  there  are no non-option arguments, then windres will read from
	   standard input.  windres can not read a  COFF  file	from  standard
	   input.

       -o filename
       --output filename
	   The name of the output file.	 If this option is not used, then win-
	   dres will use the first non-option argument, after any used for the
	   input  file	name,  as  the	output file name.  If there is no non-
	   option argument, then windres will write to standard output.	  win-
	   dres	 can  not  write  a  COFF  file to standard output.  Note, for
	   compatability with rc the option -fo is also accepted, but its  use
	   is not recommended.

       -J format
       --input-format format
	   The	input  format to read.	format may be res, rc, or coff.	 If no
	   input format is specified, windres will guess, as described	above.

       -O format
       --output-format format
	   The output format to generate.  format may be res, rc, or coff.  If
	   no output format is specified, windres  will	 guess,	 as  described
	   above.

       -F target
       --target target
	   Specify  the	 BFD format to use for a COFF file as input or output.
	   This is a BFD target name; you can use the --help option to	see  a
	   list	 of  supported targets.	 Normally windres will use the default
	   format, which is the first one listed by the --help option.

       --preprocessor program
	   When windres reads an "rc" file, it runs it through the  C  prepro-
	   cessor  first.  This option may be used to specify the preprocessor
	   to use, including any leading arguments.  The default  preprocessor
	   argument is "gcc -E -xc-header -DRC_INVOKED".

       -I directory
       --include-dir directory
	   Specify  an	include	 directory  to	use when reading an "rc" file.
	   windres will pass this to the preprocessor as an -I	option.	  win-
	   dres	 will  also search this directory when looking for files named
	   in the "rc" file.  If the argument passed to this  command  matches
	   any	of  the	 supported formats (as descrived in the -J option), it
	   will issue a deprecation warning,  and  behave  just	 like  the  -J
	   option.   New  programs should not use this behaviour.  If a direc-
	   tory happens to match a format, simple prefix it with ./ to disable
	   the backward compatibility.

       -D target
       --define sym[=val]
	   Specify  a  -D  option  to pass to the preprocessor when reading an
	   "rc" file.

       -U target
       --undefine sym
	   Specify a -U option to pass to the  preprocessor  when  reading  an
	   "rc" file.

       -r  Ignored for compatibility with rc.

       -v  Enable  verbose  mode.   This tells you what the preprocessor is if
	   you didn’t specify one.

       -l val
       --language val
	   Specify the default language to use when reading an "rc" file.  val
	   should  be a hexadecimal language code.  The low eight bits are the
	   language, and the high eight bits are the sublanguage.

       --use-temp-file
	   Use a temporary file to instead of using popen to read  the	output
	   of the preprocessor. Use this option if the popen implementation is
	   buggy on the host (eg., certain non-English	language  versions  of
	   Windows  95	and Windows 98 are known to have buggy popen where the
	   output will instead go the console).

       --no-use-temp-file
	   Use popen, not a temporary file, to read the output of the  prepro-
	   cessor.  This is the default behaviour.

       -h
       --help
	   Prints a usage summary.

       -V
       --version
	   Prints the version number for windres.

       --yydebug
	   If  windres is compiled with "YYDEBUG" defined as 1, this will turn
	   on parser debugging.

SEE ALSO
       the Info entries for binutils.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1991, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000,  2001,	 2002,
       2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission  is  granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
       under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version  1.1  or
       any  later  version  published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
       Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with	no  Back-Cover
       Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ‘‘GNU
       Free Documentation License’’.



binutils-2.13.90		  2003-04-27			    WINDRES(1)
