WHOB(8)			  BSD System Manager’s Manual		       WHOB(8)

NAME
     whob - display whois-type information of interest to Internet operators

SYNOPSIS
     whob [-h pwhois-server] [-aCchnopRrstuVv] host

DESCRIPTION
     whob queries various sources of whois information for data of interest to
     network operators and their tracing and debugging tools.

     whob output is designed to be easily parsed, or better yet, its function-
     ality can be added directly into your programs (see whois.h).

     The only mandatory parameter is the target host name or IP number.
     Options toggle the display of more interesting data or change the sources
     used to obtain that data.

     One key advantage of whob is its lookup of ASN information derived from
     the global Internet routing table itself, as opposed to relying solely on
     what has been registered in the RADB/IRR (see below).  This data is, by
     default, sourced from the global pWhoIs service.  See www.pwhois.org

     Other options are:

     -a ASN  Display all routing advertisements made by the respective Origin-
	     AS.  The Origin-AS may be supplied as the target argument, or a
	     hostname or IP address may be supplied and whob will resolve the
	     ASN automatically.

     -P prefix
	     Display all routing advertisements related to the CIDR prefix
	     supplied by the user.

     -R	     Display the Origin-AS on record at the RADB/IRR (Routing Arbiter
	     Database/Internet Routing Registry) in addition the the Origin-AS
	     provided by the prefix-based whois data source.

     -n	     Display the network name on record with the IP network allocation
	     registry also such as ARIN, RIPE, or APNIC.

     -o	     Display the organization name on file at the registrar.

     -p	     Display the AS-Path from the perspective of the current pwhois
	     server.  The pwhois server may automatically exclude the initial,
	     least specific ASN received from the operator of the network to
	     which it is connected (unless that ASN is the only/origin ASN or
	     unless it has multiple peers). Of course, this AS-Path is subjec-
	     tive.  If you rely on this and want AS-Paths that correspond to
	     *your* network infrastructure, you may want to install your own
	     pwhois server.  See the (-w) option and www.pwhois.org

     -t	     Display the date the route was last cached by the pWhoIs server.

     -u	     When possible, display dates in UTC/GMT instead of local time.

     -h/w host
	     Change the source of prefix-based whois data from the default
	     (pWhoIs) to any pwhois-compatible server of your choice (like
	     your own).

     -c	     Change the source of prefix-based whois data from the default
	     (pWhoIs) to Cymru.	 See www.cymru.com for more details.

     -r	     Display the Origin-AS and prefix according to RIPE NCC RIS (see
	     www.ripe.net/projects/ris/)

     -s	     Show the status of the (respective) pWhoIs server and exit(0)

     -V	     Display verbose/debug output.  Use multiple ’V’s for additional
	     verbosity.

     -v	     Display this client’s version information and exit(1)

AUTHORS
     Victor Oppleman and Eugene Antsilevitch

REPORTING BUGS
     To report bugs, send e-mail to <whob@oppleman.com>

SEE ALSO
     lft(8), whois(1)

HISTORY
     The whob command first appeared in 2004.  This whois framework has been a
     component of LFT since 2002.

WHOB				August 17, 2002				  WHOB
