DNSBLOG(8)							    DNSBLOG(8)



NAME
       dnsblog - Postfix DNS white/blacklist logger

SYNOPSIS
       dnsblog [generic Postfix daemon options]

DESCRIPTION
       The  dnsblog(8)	server implements an ad-hoc DNS white/blacklist lookup
       service. This may eventually be replaced by an UDP client that is built
       directly into the postscreen(8) server.

PROTOCOL
       With each connection, the dnsblog(8) server receives a DNS white/black-
       list domain name, an IP address, and an	ID.   If  the  IP  address  is
       listed  under  the  DNS white/blacklist, the dnsblog(8) server logs the
       match and replies with the query arguments plus an  address  list  with
       the  resulting  IP  addresses  separated	 by  whitespace.  Otherwise it
       replies with the query arguments plus an empty address list.   Finally,
       The dnsblog(8) server closes the connection.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Problems and transactions are logged to syslogd(8).

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       Changes to main.cf are picked up automatically, as dnsblog(8) processes
       run for only a limited amount of time. Use the command "postfix reload"
       to speed up a change.

       The  text  below provides only a parameter summary. See postconf(5) for
       more details including examples.

       config_directory (see ’postconf -d’ output)
	      The default location of the Postfix main.cf and  master.cf  con-
	      figuration files.

       daemon_timeout (18000s)
	      How  much	 time  a  Postfix  daemon process may take to handle a
	      request before it is terminated by a built-in watchdog timer.

       postscreen_dnsbl_sites (empty)
	      Optional list of DNS white/blacklist domains, filters and weight
	      factors.

       ipc_timeout (3600s)
	      The  time	 limit	for  sending  or receiving information over an
	      internal communication channel.

       process_id (read-only)
	      The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.

       process_name (read-only)
	      The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.

       queue_directory (see ’postconf -d’ output)
	      The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.

       syslog_facility (mail)
	      The syslog facility of Postfix logging.

       syslog_name (see ’postconf -d’ output)
	      The mail system name that is prepended to the  process  name  in
	      syslog   records,	  so   that   "smtpd"  becomes,	 for  example,
	      "postfix/smtpd".

SEE ALSO
       smtpd(8), Postfix SMTP server
       postconf(5), configuration parameters
       syslogd(5), system logging

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

HISTORY
       This service was introduced with Postfix version 2.8.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA



								    DNSBLOG(8)
